I don't understand why it is that Joe
vegan keeps making videos showing me
dancing but I'm never dancing to any of
the music i would actually listen to in
real life he knows he knows what I was
and you named that sample in that Thun
yeah that song starts the lyric let he
who is without sin throw the first stone
none of us on YouTube here without sin
none of us are perfect and I actually
have very low expectations of my fellow
vegan youtubers contrary to popular
belief for ages I supported a Joe vegans
Channel I saw it grow for ages I tuned
in to his channel and laughed at myself
along with everyone else I think there
were a lot of very negative things about
the vegan drama phenomenon but I also
think that as long as we can laugh at it
it's not nearly serious and I do think
the comedy can serve an important role
but of course it is it's hard to draw a
line to say are you part of the problem
or are you part of the solution if
you're satirizing these things but I do
think that Joe really he was trying to
make the world a better place in a small
way and he was letting even people like
me have a laugh at the situation but I
think he really didn't think through how
different it is for him to speak for
himself in the first person when he was
doing live streams because do other
forms of broadcasting when he was
directly making comments on directly
engaging in the production of vegan
drama um in contrast to the scripted
videos where he's making fun of it where
he's having a laugh at it and where it's
very clear he doesn't approve of um the
vegan drama scene we know it's clear
that he's neither really condemning
these people nor is He approving of this
this kind of bizarre industry of people
trying to make money out of slander as a
contact sport and uh you know one of the
advantages of really American hip hop
culture is that it openly articulates
the whole question of respect and
disrespect and the British I think read
a huge disadvantage of that the British
have a lot of trouble
resolving those problems because they
can't articulate in the first place what
is the problem with you disrespected me
I feel disrespect what what even are my
saying what am I expecting of you in
terms of showing respect women so like
me for example I I laughed along with
Joe and I used to watch his videos nice
to give him positive supportive comments
below this video's when he was he was
earning money ridiculing me because that
was comedy and to me I don't think in
that context of scripted call me I don't
expect anyone to respect me in that
sense my idea of what respect is that
guy is totally different then we get
into a very different context where he's
really coming on camera doing these live
streams and he is directly providing you
know really kind of political commentary
on this kind of drama and where he was
speaking in his own voice and he was
expressing his doubts about whether or
not my legal case is real about various
things in my life and so on to me that's
especially problematic as he and I have
spoken privately he's alluded to that
news channel was totally appropriate um
where you know I had sent him a legal
documents or evidence pertaining to make
updates pertain to my case and he
checked with me about what he should say
publicly and what he should treat Pavel
and so on and so throughout that time
where he was repeatedly from my
perspective disrespecting me really
disrespecting me and saying things that
are factually wrong saying things that
have a negative impact in my life they
really do during that whole time I was
writing to him baseless and we'll look
you know if you want more evidence I can
give it to you if you want more details
with a legal process I can show you
something to read on the internet I know
we ain't got all the time in the world
but for him to them behave publicly as
if there was something mysterious or
evasive or lacking or unreal about my
legal case when my situation with him is
I'm willing to give him all the
information he wants and more I'm going
to talk to him I'm going to show him
things privately or whatever if he wants
material that he can share publicly I
can give him that too in the past I have
you know it's pretty boring stuff no it
really is um you know I can talk with
him about what I can and can't stay
publicly I can set his mind it
ease and we was refusing to take
advantage of that and he was sharing
information that he knows is factually
wrong that he knows has negative impacts
of me in real life when he's presenting
the stuff that does not make the world a
better place in any way and it
disrespects me and what would you expect
you what do you thinks gonna happen next
like do you think we're just going to be
friends like do you think we're going to
cooperate I'm going to do a fundraiser
for your you know animal sanctuary now
anyway one issue leads to another I have
video to encourage all you guys to watch
talking about the difficulties of owning
and operating animal sanctuary and I
believe I'm going to do more videos in
the future because two of my regular
viewers have written to me talking about
their experience volunteering at animal
sanctuaries and you know it's hard work
it's much harder work than most people
think it is I know a little bit about
that from our experience with farms and
it's a lot more money and a lot more
time and also I mean other people
written to be saying it's also a lot
more hopeless and bleak and
heartbreaking so I did talk about that
video that video doesn't name Joe
because he asked me not to name it how
many videos is he got naming me I can't
even count but I understand I understand
its sensitivity I mean I do and in my
way I still want to show respect to him
my point in mentioning this now is in
that video talking with the animal
sanctuaries there's no malice I'm not
attacking Joe I'm not defaming him I'm
not ridiculing him I could it would not
be hard Joe it would not be hard for me
to come on camera and ridicule what you
have to say about animal sanctuaries and
I don't and you know i feel i'm
presenting something that's factually
right it's not it's not false it's not
fictional um I don't think as any
negative impacts for you and I think it
is made the world a better place I think
it's actually engaging vegans in a set
of productive reflections on effective
activism how to actually help animals
what do animal sanctuaries really entail
etc etc and i'm also open to the fact
that different people are going to come
to to two different answers with it
won't have you i made a comment uh to i
made a comment in the company of
controvert able snitch his real name is
John John was complaining and totally
understandable he said he
could not believe the level of hostility
and infighting amongst vegans even
compared to his experience with the
Christian Church even with his
experience with becoming an atheist with
getting able with a new atheist movement
and even compared to experience of the
world of hip-hop of rap music and so I
made the comment i stutter comment
saying yeah I know so this is in a
public discussion forum vegans tear each
other apart in another level compared to
New Atheists compared to rappers etc
we're the worst veganism basically
equals the freelance Spanish Inquisition
on the deck of the Titanic a bunch of
people you know laughed or put in smiley
faces and response that what have you
but then there was one response so this
is I'm saying vegans behave like the
freelance Spanish Inquisition on the
decks that Titanic one person wrote back
to me saying and they all want to seat
in the lifeboat before the ship sinks
and to that of replied no man it's not
that they want to see the live phone
it's like quote I don't care if I have
to swim but I'm gonna make sure you
drown first it's pretty brutal it's
brutal I mean honestly I can't say it's
as bad as academic Buddhism I can't I'm
sorry inside the university's its
academic pathology is incredibly nasty
and it is also about money sex fame
religious philosophy power
influence yeaaaa academic pathology is
actually worse than veganism so I I
can't say vegans are the worst scene
i've been involved with and but you know
to me it's sad to see people tearing
each other's eyes out when they got
nothing to win they got nothing to lose
so look I want to explicitly articulate
this in case Joe vegan doesn't get it or
in case anyone else does again if you
make a video that hurts my feelings
that's not a reason to delete the video
that's not a reason to center yourself
and I've never asked anyone to do that
like hey your video hurts my feelings
okay the thresholds for why someone
should delete a video or delete part of
a video because you don't have to lead
the whole video here you can edit out
part of it you can 21st century
technology if you're putting something
up on the internet up
me that is factually wrong especially if
you know it is fashionable and something
that has negative impacts on me in real
life especially if you know it does
because I've told you it does I've
explained to the death and I can explain
more and the third point is and also
it's not making the world a better place
to keep it online then why wouldn't you
delete that video or delete that portion
of the video just as a gesture of
respect to me ok Joe vegan has never
even considered doing that and that does
put them on the same level as someone
like vegan cheetah I don't expect
everyone to issue a retraction I don't
expect everyone issue an apology or what
have you but I mean let's say so another
another vicious lie that people say
about me to my knowledge this doesn't
have negative effects on but I think it
could if I have people on the internet
saying that I don't pay child support
now I do I don't really want to say a
lot more about my legal situation in
France blah blah blah but I'm a divorced
parent I do pay child support so you
know obviously someone just made up that
that lie and there are different videos
on YouTube you know repeating it in
various ways ok so if you have a video
about me saying that and now you talk to
me or whatever by email or by Skype and
now you know that's factually wrong you
know it can have negative impacts on me
in real life it's not trivial right and
it's not making the world a better place
then you should take that down I think
that meets the threshold for white when
you should delete a video whether you're
Joe vegan or whether you're anyone else
and again it's hard to imagine a comedy
video if it's comedy and everyone knows
that it's comedy it would be pretty hard
to cross those lines but in the videos
that are him speaking factual that I'm
doing reporting him doing journalism him
doing live streaming and speaking for
himself as being factually you can cross
all those lines really easily if you're
just not mindful if you just don't think
about these issues of respect and
disrespect I think it's really easy to
now I have myself issued an apology in
the recent past to freely I'd encourage
all you guys to watch the video the
title is something like my apology too
freely it's easy to find great video can
watch it I'm happy to apologize to
freely even if it just makes her feel
better though there's no I don't need a
better reason than that
to apologize to someone the videos I
have up already that are insulting
towards freely or that she put it she
may feel insulted by I think they deal
with factual matters on which I am
correct and which I'm really really
raising important factual issues i do
not think any of them have a negative
impact on freely in real life you know
dealing with an issue like whether or
not it's safe for vegans the garlic
because freely popularized the idea that
garlic contains a neurotoxin neurotoxin
means a poison that impacts your brain
choosing vegans should refuse the garlic
for this reason this is just one example
of a factual issue where I stand by the
fact that what I to say factually
correct and I do and and and my third
criterion here by keeping that video
online I do think in my small way I'm
making the world a better place there
were a lot of people who saw those
videos and really thought wow they need
to reconsider a free least credibility
they need to reconsider the type of
scientific or scientific claims she
makes the type of health advice she
makes given those examples that I
discussed given those things I raise now
freely she's also she's never asked me
to delete any videos and we're within
this is a small world it would be easy
for her to send me a message asking me
to leave she's never has she's never
asked me to change anything on my
channel but if she did those would be
the consideration she actually wrote to
me saying look this is impacting my life
negatively in some way I can't imagine
or something or she wrote to me
explaining the something I said about
her was really factually wrong
misleading I without hesitation I would
delete videos i have about freely okay
why partly out of respect even people i
disagree with you know i can still show
respect for them even people who have
harmed me i can still show respect for
them and you know i mean this is the sad
thing the prospect of politics politics
itself requires that we must be able to
disagree with each other without making
enemies out of each other okay but i
have to ongoing legal cases in the real
world
if you are talking about me in my
legal situation on the internet it
doesn't take much imagination to think
that apart from disrespecting me apart
from insulting the apart from snubbing
me when I've offered enjoying its case
to provide him with legal documentation
provided with further evidence or
further details of further explanation
if he has any questions I'm offering to
answer his question I offered for months
and you shut that you turn that down it
does not take much imagination for you
to realize how this type of scandal
mongering boom you can negatively impact
my legal situation in my divorce in
France or the criminal charges on
pressing in Thailand it does not take
much imagination for you to realize how
this could negatively impact me when I
am for example applying for a job to
have this kind of dirt spread of immune
internet and yes it bothers me if
someone like Joe vegan if they know me
if I've been friendly to them in the
past need been friendly towards me too
to have them speaking for that position
of someone who apparently knows me to
our shared fanbase of only a few
thousand people it's not that many
people are interested and discrediting
me and pillorying me and disrespecting
me that matters that in itself has an
impact on me because YouTube is also
part of my life